Okay. Time to do some calculations to estimate the range of the targets.
In this image, the white car is an ego car which has radar mounted on its grill.
The radar transmits the signal and receives
it back after the reflection from the orange car.
How does the radar calculate the range of the orange car? Let's see.
We know the electromagnetic wave travels at the speed of light.
So if we can determine the total trip time taken by
the radar signal to hit the target and return back to the radar,
then you can calculate the range.
But the question is, how do we calculate the trip time?
This is where FMCW comes to the rescue.
FMCW radar, as learned in the earlier lesson,
the frequency varies linearly with time.
By design, we are aware of the slope of the signal.
So if we can calculate the shift in the signal frequency,
which is here you can see in the image as given by the beat frequency,
then we can estimate the shift in time,
which gives our trip time.
Let's look at it from the system's perspective.
The synthesizer generates FMCW chip for a given bandwidth and chip time.
Let's say the signal gets transmitted at 77 gigahertz.
It goes on, hits the target,
and gets reflected back towards the receiver antenna.
The frequency doesn't change during the process.
The frequency here goes into a mixer where it gets
subtracted from the mixer frequency and we get a beat signal.
Point to note. If the target is stationary,
there is no change in the transmitted and received frequency.
The only shift happens at the synthesizer as it continues to ramp linearly with time.
This is how the beat frequency signal appears for the different targets.
Higher the beat frequency of the peak associated with the target,
more is the distance.
Also as you can see,
the power of the signal is larger for the biggest sized targets.
So we can see there is a pedestrian close to the radar,
and then there's a truck close to it.
But the power level of the truck is higher because of its larger cross-sectional area.